---
inFeed: true
description: >-
  While chatting with other coaches this morning, we began discussing the
  confusing and sometimes-nebulous semi-goal of ‘high-performance.’  I shared a
  parable.  It goes like this…
dateModified: '2017-10-24T17:49:43.951Z'
datePublished: '2017-10-24T17:49:44.374Z'
title: An Agile Parable
author: []
publisher: {}
via: {}
sourcePath: _posts/2017-10-24-an-agile-parable.md
starred: false
datePublishedOriginal: '2017-10-24T17:40:26.860Z'
_type: Blurb

---
# An Agile Parable

While chatting with other coaches this morning, we began discussing the confusing and sometimes-nebulous semi-goal of 'high-performance.' I shared a parable. It goes like this...

> I once lived in a town, as a child, where a significant amount of the town's revenue was generated by the leasing out of billboards near highways and around the town. One year, the town passed an ordinance that no structure within town limits could be higher than X. The billboards came down. The town coffers soon went dry. The town raised taxes (luckily by then I had joined the army and left town). After several years, the ordinance was lifted and the billboards (and consequently the revenue) came back. The taxes remained.
> At the end of this story, is the town high-performing? The main metric of the story is revenue. There's more now.

By telling this story, my goal was to provoke thought. And, that's exactly what it did. For me. I have no idea if the others even read my story.

I began thinking about pain. Pain, and how enduring the human spirit is. When we experience a constant pain, we tend to complain about it. Until we stop. Soon after we stop we accept the pain as the new normal.

(Do you see how this line of thinking actually parallels many conversations about 'high-performance'? When we reach a higher level of performance, it becomes normal. Then we continue to strive for higher performance, because if we sustain our level of performance, we've stagnated while the rest of the world continues to increase their level of performance.)

I see the biggest resistance to Agile practices around eXtreme Programming (XP) practices, treating people like people, and adopting localized self-management and self-organization. 

Resistance to change is normal. What if we changed normal? If we changed normal to be self-managing teams. It would be painful. For a while. When it became tolerable, and then normal, what if we adopted self-forming teams? It would be painful. For a while.

The hardest hurdle is always the first. Not because it's the tallest. But because it's not familiar. It feels weird. It looks scary. There's a lot of downside to not clearing the hurdle. But, what if? What if we clear it?

If we clear enough hurdles, we can allow ourselves to sprint (pardon the pun). The hurdles may have slowed us down, but we're better for it. And, clearing hurdles is now the new normal. So, if anyone (even our competitors) throws a hurdle in our way, guess who can clear it with ease?